[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So now we're going
to call in disease.
>> The human is settled.
>> Guides, what
is the other side?
>> If you don't mind
going to Theo now,
we'll begin that conversation.
>> The other side is
everything that exists--
that exists beyond
the physical realm--
beyond the physical realm.
>> The Earth is a place
of learning of emotions,
of interpersonal relationships.
>> Working on your own
strength, your own love,
your own self-care is the way to
the biggest and brightest life
for every single
individual on this planet.
>> Belief in the guiding hand of
spirits or angels is certainly
not a new idea, but is it
possible that a person can
receive messages from beyond
with their physical body acting
as a vessel for other
worldly entities
>> I have to say
good day to you.
This day of your time.
How are you all?
>> If so, how might this
phenomenon take place,
and what are the inherent
dangers involved?
[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]
The practice of
channeling is a means
of communicating with a
discarded consciousness
by allowing that consciousness
to express itself
through the channeler's body.
>> All right.
>> Greetings, dear ones.
>> Yes, hello, dear.
>> May the peace of the great
spirit be with you always.
>> When I hear a voice, I
always have to say it's not like
somebody is whispering to me
from the other side of a room.
It's like a thought
that pushes aside
all other thoughts to
the forefront of my mind
that has this quality of
truth that I can't deny
and is always, almost always,
not convenient to what
I want to hear.
>> Right.
>> Can we prove that the
messages coming through
the channeler are, in fact,
from a legitimate other worldly
source and not just
the work of charlatans?
>> I did a channeling with my
head wired to an EEG machine,
and one of the most profound
things is that there are
certain centers of the brain
that are responsible supposedly
for processing the personality.
During the channeling state, my
personality center is shut off.
So if I'm not there,
who's speaking?
The other thing we
found out is that there
are certain things
that are called
set points that are
not supposed to change
throughout your lifetime.
The set point when I
channel changes in seconds,
and that's not supposed
to be possible.
>> The practice of channeling
has been around since earliest
eras of human history as shamans
and witch doctors have always
claimed the ability to
communicate with the other
side.
Trance channeling is thought
to have begun in ancient Egypt
and ancient China
where the name Wu was
given to trance channelers.
In ancient Greece, the
high priestess, the Pythia,
also known as the
Oracle of Delphi,
was a role played by many
women over a 600-year period.
Ancient Greeks would never
make important decisions
without first
consulting the Oracle.
Travelers would
travel great distances
to seek guidance
from her prophecies.
One of the main accounts
regarding the Oracle's process
claims that she would
inhale vapors rising
from a chasm in the rock
after which she would
enter a trance-like
state and begin
speaking with an altered voice.
It was speculated
that she was speaking
on behalf of the gods,
specifically Apollo.
Spartan Victor of the
Peloponnesian War,
Lysander, was warned
by the Oracle, also
the dragon Earthborn, in
craftiness, coming behind thee.
Eight years later, Lysander
was slain, stabbed from behind
by a warrior who yielded a
shield with a serpent painted
on it.
The case could be made
for every religion
being the result of
channeled communication
from another realm.
Could Moses have essentially
channeled the Ten Commandments
in the Bible?
Could the Quran
be channeled texts
representing the word of God?
Famous channelers within
the Christian church
include Joan of Arc,
Michel de Nostradamus,
and Saint John of the Cross.
However, the
Christian church did
make a distinction between
holy spirit channelers
and those who they believed
to be channeling evil spirits.
They claimed these people
were possessed by the devil
and burned them at the stake
as witches or heretics.
Nevertheless, the
practice continued
on through the centuries
with well-known channelers
such as Edgar Cayce, Jack
Purcell, and Jane Roberts,
who channeled an entire
bestselling book called
"Seth Speaks" in 1972.
>> I wasn't aware of my body
at all or the manuscript,
the writing, or anything.
And one of the things
that I really hope
is that people would begin
to trust their own revelatory
experience and not automatically
cloak it in whatever dogma
they believe in.
>> Between 1981 and 1984,
physics professor and UFO
investigator Don Elkins
interviewed medium Carla
Rueckert who claimed to be
channeling a group of entities
known as Ra.
In a series of
106 conversations,
Ra declared to be a sixth
density social memory
complex that was attempting to
aid in the spiritual evolution
of humanity.
Through Carla, Ra
relayed a wide range
of teachings including
reincarnation,
the history of the universe,
pyramids, Atlantis, and even
Bigfoot.
>> All things, all of life,
all of creation is part of one
original thought.
>> But who are some of the other
beings trying to communicate
with us and why?
Experts say that channeling
might include communicating
with spirit guides, ascended
masters, angels, deceased loved
ones, deities,
extraterrestrials,
spirits that have
never incarnated,
and even your own higher self.
Their purpose, according
to many channeled entities,
is to help humanity.
>> Humanity is a collective.
You imprint the
collective consciousness
of all of humanity
regardless of the state
of consciousness of some of
the humans that occupy Earth.
>> Some of the most common
themes of channeled messages
include the nature of the human
existence, manifesting desires,
and the misunderstandings
of death.
>> Dying is the easiest thing
you'll ever do because you are
reemerging back into
the world of spirit,
back to where you came
come, back to your source.
>> Regardless of what happens
to the physical personality,
the spirit, the being, the
consciousness is eternal
and infinite.
>> You create your realities,
every bit of your realities.
>> Whatever you are
putting out emotionally,
you're going to get
back energetically.
>> During a channeling session,
the channeler can receive up
to hours of information.
So how aware is the channeler of
the information being relayed?
>> I'm aware that there is
a communication going on.
I don't really hear the
words because that's
secondary to what I'm receiving.
I'm receiving these
telepathic concepts
in a way that allows
me to experience
imagery and emotion
that's so all encompassing
that if I were to pay attention
to the translation which
is for the person
asking the question,
I would take myself out
of the altered state.
>> So how exactly does
the connection take place?
>> You shift your brain wave
frequency into a state called
gamma, which is about 40
to 100 cycles per second,
and then Bashar makes an
adjustment in his brainwave
frequency.
And somewhere in
the middle we lock.
And as we vibrate
together, what you get
is a translation of his
thoughts into the language
that I'm programmed with.
>> Experts recommend a healthy
dose of cautiousness for those
intending to delve
into channeling.
While some self-proclaimed
channelers can fairly easily
be identified as
fake, others who
seem to be having a legitimate
channeling experience
may be bringing through
lower vibrational entities.
Possession is believed to
be a very real consequence
of channeling as there are
many lower entities that
might attempt to invade a host.
Once attached, it is said
these negative entities
can then feed off of
their host energy,
instilling fearful
messages and weakening
the person they are possessing.
However, this can only happen
if the person allows them in.
The most important
thing to do when
listening to a channeled
message or if you
decide to attempt channeling
yourself is to use discernment.
Does the message feel
positive and uplifting to you,
or is it fearful
and disempowering?
If your channeling session
feels negative or does not
resonate with you
in any way, experts
say to disconnect immediately.
Send the entity to the
light and leave it behind.
Channeled messages have
been received for millennia
and will most likely
continue into the future
if we are open and
willing to accept them.
For the most part,
the practice is
believed to be relatively safe.
But it's also important
to use discernment.
Always listen to
your inner truth
when evaluating the merits
of channeled information.
If you do, however, feel a
calling to attempt channeling,
then perhaps a trove
of ethereal wisdom
lies just beyond
this earthly realm
waiting for you to receive it.